Welcome to JW Broadcasting.
In this month's program, we will feature the study methods that are used in Gilead school.
For a moment, let's imagine ourselves starting hard day as a Gilead student.
See you later.
Morning, have a good day, class.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning, sir.
How are you?
Good to see you.
How was your night?
It was good.
A long night of studying, but it was worth it.
I'm really looking forward to the lesson this morning.
You know, I agree with you.
I feel the same.
The information we have been studying is really touching my heart.
I know what you mean.
I feel like I've become more of a spiritual person.
And my relationship with Jehovah has become so much stronger.
Good morning, everyone.
What are the study methods that are helping the students grow in their relationship with Jehovah?
And more importantly, how can we apply these methods in our own personal study?
We'll find the answers and more.
Here are some of the highlights of what's ahead.
These brothers and sisters describe how they approach their personal Bible study.
They're from different parts of the world, but they share many common study techniques.
What questions do they ask as they read and meditate on the Bible?
How does their deep study take them beyond the basics of Bible understanding?
Young ones, are you digging deep into God's word now?
How can this help you make the truth your own?
And can you succeed even without the support of those spiritually close to you?
This sister's experience will show us the benefits of searching the Bible as if for hidden treasures.
Can you be ready to make a wise choice that matters of conscience?
Do study habits affect how well prepared and trained your conscience is for an unexpected situation?
We'll see how the sister in this dramatization answers those questions.
This is JW Broadcasting for July 2018.
We begin with an archived interview of Brother Alan Boyle.
Among his many assignments, Brother Boyle spent 37 years in the art department at World Headquarters.
The beautiful and accurate illustrations produce their enhanced hour study,
helping us to visualize and meditate on what we are reading.
In assignment to create these pictures is exciting,
but it requires that a person have spiritual qualities.
Artists collaborate and must humbly listen to each other's comments.
They must apply direction from the faithful and discreet slave to prepare artwork that we can take in as spiritual food.
As you'll hear Brother Boyle describe, a person must be an avid student of the Bible.
Listen to Brother Boyle's story and note what he said was needed for him to do his assignment well.
I was born in 1933. I got to the age of 18 and one supper time my mother had invited the company servants as they were called back then to come for supper.
He asked me what I was going to do with my life.
I said to him, well, I'm going to pioneer for three weeks later at the convention in London.
I got baptized and then went pioneering six months after that.
I was 21 when I was on the circuit work and that was a wonderful experience.
And in those days, of course, you didn't have a car. I used to have a motorbike.
And I'd go around the motorbike and my briefcase and my typewriter and the clothes in the other case on the back.
That was very exciting.
I was invited to go to Gilead and that was wonderfully exciting. We had 103 in the class.
Little did I know at that time that I would be sent as a missionary to Ireland.
My friend had been invited to go down to London Bethel to do the artwork there.
I'd always wanted to be in Bethel.
I thought, well, why don't I just call him up and congratulate him?
So that's what I did.
And he told me that he decided not to go in.
So he said, if you're still interested, why don't you call him up and let them know?
So that's what I did the next morning. I called up London Bethel.
And within a week, I was in London Bethel, doing the graphics work for the magazine.
It was a wonderful thrilling experience.
I was in London Bethel for a couple of years in 1977 to 1979.
And brother Barry invited me to come over to Brooklyn Bethel.
You know that you're doing something that's going to be beneficial and helpful to other people.
To people even in different languages, in different cultures.
Little painting that you do is going to help them to get a memory of something significant.
One of the most beautiful things about working in the art department and doing paintings
is that it makes you do research.
You have to investigate, is this the right time of the day? Is it night? Is it day?
What's the sky looked like? What was it like before the flood?
When Noah built the ark. How did he paint underneath the ark?
How did he waterproof it? Because that's the most important part, isn't it?
He used bitumen. Okay, how did he get underneath the ark? Maybe put it on stills.
You have to come up with all these little questions in your mind.
To do the research was very rewarding.
This is a little model of a boat.
And underneath the deck, they used to keep a ballast sack of 110 pounds of sand.
And it says in the scriptures that Jesus was asleep on a pillow.
Apparently this was the ballast sack that he was asleep on.
And actually in the Kingdom into linear translation, it doesn't say he was asleep on a pillow.
It says he was asleep on the pillow.
So apparently back 2000 years ago in that area, everybody knew what the pillow was.
I remember meeting a brother once who'd been to Siberia.
And he'd taken a snapshot of somebody's kitchen in Siberia.
And to my amazement on the wall, pinned with the drawing pins on the wall,
was one of the pages or the publications that we produced here at Brooklyn.
And so remarkably, it's wonderful to feel that whatever we do here,
if it's support work, if it's the painting,
and of course we need a lot of support work for the paintings,
all what we do here has an effect upon the brothers and sisters out there in the world,
wherever it might be.
And you really feel that your time is well worth spent.
You're adorning the word of truth,
you're helping other people to be taught something from the Bible,
which is going to be to their benefit.
It's been very rewarding and thrilling to be in Jehovah's service,
and I've really enjoyed it.
Alan Boyle finishes earthly course in 2016.
Those in the art department, who worked with him,
remember his enthusiasm and his thorough attention to detail.
What Alan brought to his assignment was rooted in his own personal study of the Bible.
He founded Rewarding to do the research needed to illustrate Bible scenes.
Today, the writing department supplies a team of researchers to assist the artists.
But did you recall what Alan said helped his research?
He asked questions about the scenes he was painting.
These same kinds of questions are part of the study methods
Gilead students learning class.
And these are the same methods that we'll learn about in this program.
How would you feel if you received an invitation to attend the next class of Gilead school?
For many, it has been a lifelong dream to attend Gilead.
The course helps students keep a tight grip on the word of life.
For others, the idea of five months of intense study seems intimidating.
We know we need to study, but we may find it a challenge to get the most out of the time we spend reading God's Word.
In this program, we will discuss why study is so important.
What it means to study something, how you can get more familiar study sessions.
Since most cannot attend Gilead, we will demonstrate the method used in Gilead school.
First, why is study so important?
Only by study can we keep a tight grip on the word of life.
When the Apostle Paul penned these words, he was imprisoned in nearing the end of his action-packed life.
He had been the Apostle to the nations and had spent his best years taking the Word of God to the unknown world.
As he reflected on the fruits of his labors, he wrote a letter to his friends in the congregation in Philippi in Macedonia.
Inspired by Holy Spirit, he wrote words that would aid his brothers to gain the prize of eternal life.
These words are found at Philippians chapter 2, verse 15 and 16.
Let's read them.
So that you may come to be blameless and innocent children of God without a blemish in the midst of a crooked and twisted generation,
among whom you are shining as illuminators in the world,
keeping a tight grip on the Word of life.
Imagine the joy Paul felt when he was reunited in the heavenly resurrection with those who listened to his admonition to keep a tight grip on the Word of life.
Whether we have the heavenly or earthly hope, Paul's words can help us gain the prize of eternal life.
They imprint in our hearts and minds a basic exhortation that will lead us through these last days and into our everlasting reward.
The question is, will we remain blameless and without blemish in the midst of this crooked and twisted generation of our day?
Will we rejoice with other faithful servants of God in the new world?
We can and we will if we take to Hart Paul's counsel to keep a tight grip on the Word of life.
Next, what does it mean to study?
Stop and contemplate this word picture for keeping a tight grip.
Imagine a hiker who was slipped near a ledge, but before falling over the cliff, he grabs hold of a tree branch.
How tight do you think his grip will be on that branch?
This is not a half-hearted effort.
Likewise, keeping a tight grip on the Word of life is not just a mechanical routine nor is it a casual habit.
It requires strenuous effort.
It involves actively living by the truths in God's Word.
To do this, we must understand more than what God expressly commands and condemns.
We must be able to identify principles or life lessons contained in the Bible.
Once identified, we must understand how to match these valuable truths to specific situations in our lives.
Then we must allow these principles to influence our decisions and guide our reaction to trials and temptations.
Ask yourself, how strong is my grip on the Word of life?
To answer that, let's consider the fundamentals of Bible study.
This is not about old methods or new methods, nor is it about what device you are using.
This discussion transcends devices.
Study requires active thinking.
In a world of increasing distractions, this is becoming an even greater challenge.
We often receive instant information that enables us to quickly recite facts.
But this is not the same as active thinking.
Through active thinking, we draw meaningful conclusions in our hearts.
We are certainly grateful for all the study tools we've been given.
We should use these to the full.
At the same time, we need to be careful that these tools do not cause us to develop mental laziness.
Devices can help us to access information, but they can't think for us.
We must work hard if we are to develop new patterns of thinking.
For example, if we study the Watchtower on a device,
we can use the hyperlink feature to read the scriptures.
With a simple touch, we quickly find and read the verse.
That is good.
If you regularly do this, you get a grip on the Word of Life.
But would you like to get a tight grip on the Word of Life?
To get a tight grip requires more effort than a swipe of a finger and then swiftly moving on.
You need to slow down and analyze the material.
Only then will the information you study become imprinted on your mind and heart,
leaving a clear and distinct impression.
How then can I get more out of my study?
Let's demonstrate a method taught during Gilead school.
It involves the use of six questions.
Following poem written by English journalist Rudyard Kipling can help guide better thinking.
I keep six honest serving men.
They taught me all I knew.
Their names are what and why and when and how and where and who.
When studying God's Word, ask yourself these questions and then do research in our publications
to get the facts and discern the spiritual lessons.
To illustrate how to do this, let's open our Bibles to Genesis chapter 49 and look at verses 22 through 25.
First we ask the when and where.
Now with some research, we learn that Jacob spoke these words near the end of his life.
He was in Egypt, but what he described takes us back to Canaan some 40 years when his son Joseph was a young man.
Now we have a clear picture of these verses.
So now let's read and analyze verse 22.
Joseph is the offshoot of a fruitful tree, a fruitful tree by a spring whose branches extend over the wall.
The offshoot of a fruitful tree, who is the fruitful tree? It is Joseph's father Jacob.
How was he fruitful? He bore many children.
Joseph's branches extend over the wall.
As Jacob's offshoot, Joseph is singled out for a special blessing superior to that of his brothers.
Why? Joseph proved he had the qualities needed for leadership.
However, of even greater value than his abilities was his being a spiritual man.
Let's read verse 23.
But the archers kept harassing him and shot at him and kept harboring animosity against him.
The archers kept harassing him. Who are the archers? Joseph's half-brothers.
How? They shot figuratively at Joseph, arrows of envy and hatred and jealousy were used to attack him.
Now eventually his brothers sold him into slavery.
Now let's read verse 24.
And yet his bow remained in place and his hands staged strong and agile.
This was from the hands of the powerful one of Jacob, from the shepherd, the stone of Israel.
His bow remained in place. How?
Despite the repeated attacks, Joseph repaid animosity with kindness.
Joseph endured this ill treatment and did not weaken in his devotion to God.
Now we ask, how? How is it that Joseph kept a spiritual outlook despite the harassment and animosity?
Let's read verse 25.
He, Joseph, is from the God of your father and he will help you and he is with the Almighty.
And he will bless you with the blessings of the heavens above, with the blessings of the deep below, with the blessings of the breasts and womb.
He is with the Almighty.
Joseph had Jehovah's help.
The Almighty was by his side through it all.
We've used our questions to get the facts of the account, but we're not done.
Now let's use them to take our study to a spiritual plane.
Next, let's ask a what question?
What does this account teach us about Jehovah?
Jehovah never abandons his loyal servants.
Even in the depths of prison, Joseph was not alone.
Jehovah found ways to bless Joseph.
Now make the connection to Jehovah's people today, including yourself.
Jehovah will never abandon us.
Rather, he shows loyal love to all those who serve him whole soul.
Would Jehovah let Joseph remain in prison indefinitely? No.
At the appointed time, relief came.
Joseph was raised from a prisoner in chains to the second most powerful man in Egypt,
from prison to palace in one day.
Make the connection to us.
Our trials are temporary.
Jehovah will soon bring relief, even in unexpected or surprising ways.
Meanwhile, we are never alone.
Jehovah is with us.
Again, let's ask the question, how?
How does the account contribute to the Bible's theme?
Joseph suffered, but his suffering led to the survival of Abraham's offspring, leading to the Messiah.
Joseph's account is not just a riveting story.
It directly contributed to the development of Jehovah's purpose.
Think about this.
In spite of the poor conduct of his brothers,
Joseph forgave them and took the initiative to improve their relationship with him.
Joseph's attitude was a reflection of Jehovah's attitude, with their family reunited.
Jehovah also forgave Joseph's brothers and took the initiative and restoring their relationship with himself.
In fact, Jehovah gave Joseph's brother Judah the honor of being an ancestor of the Messiah.
What are the lessons in this account?
Let's highlight just one.
Genesis chapter 49 and verse 23.
But the archers kept harassing him and shot at him and kept harboring animosity against him.
Arrows of animosity were fired at Joseph.
Recall Joseph's response in verse 24,
and yet his bull remained in place and his hands stayed strong and agile.
In other words, he did not return fire.
His bull remained in place, reflect on the last time you were wronged by someone.
How could someone react to what you experienced?
Would we seek to vindicate ourselves or insist on our rights?
Would we fire arrows of animosity in return?
Or could we show mercy and loyal love?
Would our reaction reveal that God's spirit was operative on us?
Like Joseph, we know we will have Jehovah's approval even if we are wronged or experienced trials
that make us feel like we are in prison.
Reflective questions like these enable us to make the account our own.
It becomes part of us, part of our way of thinking, our way of acting.
This nourishes our relationship with Jehovah.
This type of study rewards us, not simply with a collection of facts that impress us today and are forgotten tomorrow.
Rather, it leaves us with core principles that we remember that influence our decisions and that guide our lives.
We tighten our grip on the word of life.
Let's review the fundamentals of study.
Again, this is not about old methods or new methods or about what device you are using.
This discussion transcends devices.
It's about basic methods of Bible study.
We can liken these three phases of study to gathering, sifting, and baking grain.
Gathering is when we read the Bible.
We don't run through the field, grabbing just handfuls of grain.
We systematically harvest the field.
Sifting is when we sort out what we gather, answering who, what, where, when, why, and how
to get the facts.
Baking is when we think, turning up the heat in your mind and heart.
Something no one else can do for you.
The questions we ask can take our study to a spiritual plane.
Most importantly, what does this teach me about Jehovah?
How does it contribute to the Bible's theme and the bottom line?
What is the lesson for me?
Jehovah gave us a mind that is begging to learn.
It is a gift with the capacity to cultivate thinking ability.
When we make the effort to unearth gems from God's Word,
we find that study is rewarding and delightful.
More importantly, our study skills enable us to keep a tight grip on the Word of Life.
A tight grip on God's Word will make our life better now
and give us the opportunity to continue learning about our Heavenly Father for all eternity.
Joseph's account was an excellent example for us to demonstrate the fundamentals of Bible study.
During our discussion, we used pictures to help bring the account to life.
As we learn from Brother Boyle's interview, pictures and illustrations give us an accurate image to use in our meditation.
And if there's a video, we have yet another way to imagine ourselves in the account.
So we're excited to introduce this month's music video depicting the trials and blessings that Joseph experienced.
It reminds us that, like Joseph, when we have Jehovah, we are never alone.
Have you ever felt as Joseph did?
There were times when Joseph's life was not turning out as he had hoped.
He no doubt wondered if he'd ever be set free from prison,
or if he'd ever see his father again, or his younger brother Benjamin.
But Joseph knew that his God, Jehovah, never lost sight of him.
This surely helped him endure.
We could be in a painful situation that seems to drag on endlessly.
But when we study a Bible account like Joseph's, asking the sixth questions,
we can fully understand and apply the lessons in our life.
Then we can build the same faith that he had, that we too are never alone.
Let's now listen to brothers and sisters who are using the study methods we've discussed.
Some learn them in Gilead school, others from Gilead graduates, or good examples in their family and congregation.
They've also applied what they learned from our publications about good study habits.
See if any of the ways they study could help you keep a tight grip on God's Word.
The more you study, the more you understand Jehovah, the more you understand Jehovah, the more you love them.
Jehovah clearly tells us that my thoughts are not your thoughts.
So if you want to understand Jehovah's thinking better, we need to dig deep in our study and then share those thoughts with others.
Personal study is like fuel that keeps you going.
Personally, I'm not a good student, but I really learned how to study the Bible.
The Bible came alive during Gilead.
Self-discipline is involved very much.
I overcome the tiredness aspect of Bible study by not doing it at a time of day when I know I'm going to be tired.
I can be tired for other things later on, but not for that.
Each session of my Bible study begins with a prayer.
Please help me recognize it is counsel for me, and then give me the strength to work on it.
I have a color code system, so I know what certain things stand for.
I have a particular color for Jehovah's good hand in people's lives that have another color for warning examples.
I have another for fine examples to imitate.
Study and Meticion works together.
Study helps us to acquire information, and Meticion empowers us to put that information into practice.
You have to get behind the information, not just focus on one verse or a one chapter.
See who's involved, the time, the conditions, how many people are there, and then you'll get the true meaning of the verse.
John 11, who is the word?
We can go to verse 18. Begotten meant he had a beginning, a time when he started.
When he began, in heaven with his father, that's where he was.
Philippians 4, 6 and 7 is a scripture that I've read many times over.
The piece of God that excels all thought, okay? How do you get that?
It's from having a good relationship with Jehovah.
How is it that God's peace guards your heart by means of Christ Jesus our Lord?
And I said, why by Jesus?
Because Jesus paid the ransom.
That ransom is what makes possible a relationship with Jehovah, so it almost goes full circle.
During my personal study, I tried to identify principles.
To do this, I tried to look behind the commandment.
For instance, at May 28, 1920, Jesus commanded us to go and make disciples.
Beyond this commandment, I find this principle of loving our neighbor.
Using this principle helped me to preach to all sorts of people, the goddess of their gender, race, or nationality.
I attended a school for congregation elders which had Gilead graduates as instructors.
One of the methods is to analyze a certain Bible account from different perspectives.
We can't see the whole picture from one angle.
I share my research results with Bible students and that helps them to know Jehovah better and it helps them to see
that what they're studying is a practical value.
I had studied up on Jacob. He wrestled all night with an angel.
And I wanted to share it with some of my friends.
One of the brothers that happened to sit around when this discussion was going on.
He came back to me and he said to me,
I had concluded my arrangements to quit for time service.
But after listening to that discussion, I've decided I'm no longer stopping.
And that was such a wonderful moment for me.
I thanked Jehovah.
When I learned that I was going to become a mom, I said, Jehovah, if this little one could love you,
then I'll get to keep him forever. Then I began to teach everything I was learning to him.
So it's a matter of keeping my face strong and there's no shortcut.
Every session of study that is properly done with good meditation
adds a new pillar to the strength of our faith.
I look forward to those times when I can run upstairs by myself and just shut everything off and just,
and it's just me and Jehovah.
Life today is very unpredictable, but I've come to see that as long as I keep a tight grip on God's Word,
nothing can separate me from God's love.
The joy these brothers and sisters get from their personal study is clearly heard in their expressions.
Recall what they said, the more you understand Jehovah, the more you love him.
Study is like fuel that keeps you going.
And I can shut everything off and it's just me and Jehovah.
We also heard them ask the six questions, who, what, where, when, why, and how?
They also use tools for research and note-taking that works for them.
Is there something you saw or that we discussed that you'd like to add to your study routine?
If so, try it out.
Young ones, it's true that the more you understand Jehovah, the more you love him.
And what a blessing you have if your family worships Jehovah with you and teaches you how to draw close to him.
Some young ones have had to build their faith without their family's support.
Listen to the experience of Hercy Royer from the United States.
What spiritual decision did she face at just 14 years old?
And what did she do that illustrates the value of deep personal study?
Growing up, it wasn't the typical, my mom's a pioneer, my dad's an elder,
and we're doing great in the congregation.
My family life wasn't the best.
So why would I want to do this religion that nobody's happy and are family with?
And I think that could make you feel very alone or odd or awkward or secluded.
And at that time, I was graduating eighth grade.
There were dances, friends were hanging out, going to parties.
And I remember thinking, wow, these look like really nice kids.
Why wasn't I doing that?
I hadn't really delved into the Bible enough to answer questions that I really needed to know.
I went and prayed at Jehovah and said, I'm so sorry, but today I'm not a witness.
I'm going to try to prove everything that I've been taught is wrong.
I asked him if he's real to help me understand.
So I go in my room, shut the door.
I got every book off the shelf.
I started off organized.
But by the end of the evening, I had books all over the place, pages open.
The more I kept reading about Jehovah, the more the next topic it would take me to
to then connect the scriptures.
Jesus is linked to Jehovah.
The angels are linked to Jehovah.
Resurrection is linked to Jehovah.
You can't believe in one and not everything else if you really want to know the truth.
And so that's what did it for me.
Especially the scripture in Psalms when it said that you saw even the embryo of me.
And it was an emotional scripture for me because I thought, wow, my parents aren't doing great in the truth right now.
But Jehovah found a way to find me, and he knew what I could be.
Now I have my answer. I don't have an excuse.
Jehovah gave me enough knowledge that now I'm responsible.
I now need to act on that and show my love and return for him.
Within a week, I found another sister in the hall that was really helpful in me getting out and service quite often.
I don't think to the stage she ever knows how much I appreciated that.
Although things were declining in our family spiritually, I was able to get baptized.
As I progressed spiritually, I could see that I did not have the support of my family.
But I had to trust that Jehovah would help me through it.
And at least by the time I got home if there was an issue, I had the strength of the meeting and the brothers and sisters in that joy that they couldn't take away from me.
Remember I came home one day with some friends. It was a nice day.
Encouraging, upbuilding, we pull in our driveway. They dropped me off, say goodbye.
My parents were really upset when they came and met me at the door.
They couldn't fully understand why I was making my decisions.
The way I was to serve Jehovah more fully.
We just could not agree on where my relationship with Jehovah was going.
And at that point, I left with the clothes on my back.
In the matter of a few minutes, my life forever changed.
I had a spiritual aunt that took me in and helped me gather myself together and literally fed me, clothed me, helped me spiritually.
And so then my support became Jehovah and the congregation.
I remember a sister told me years ago, be who you needed when you were young.
And so when I look at those little ones, I look at myself and say, how could I have benefited from someone taking the time for me when I was that age?
I have always tried remembering the young ones because that's just part of who I am.
And making sure that they know that they're not alone.
If there was a young one out there that wasn't sure if this is the truth or not, I would like them to know that Jehovah knows who they are.
And he's finding a way for them to know him and that Jehovah is real.
And he knows them by name.
And he wants him to live and he's fighting for them.
How amazing that young Hershey chose to spend an entire day studying, proving to herself that Jehovah knew her and loved her.
But this was no one time study marathon.
From there she worked to develop the study habits she needed to endure, grow and become a spiritual person.
She pioneered for several years and now serves at Bethlehem with her husband, Jeff.
In my conversation with Hershey, she expressed her love for her family and the hope that someday in the future she'll be reunited with them spiritually.
There's no situation in life that cannot be handled better than by seeking Jehovah's guidance in the Bible.
That's certainly true in matters of conscience.
In these situations, Jehovah does not tell us what to do with a command, but his word gives us the principles we use to train our conscience.
In this dramatization, Emma has to make a difficult decision.
How is her conscience involved and what steps does she take to make her decision?
Every day we make choices that can affect our relationship with Jehovah.
When there's a clear scriptural command, the right choice may seem easy.
But what if there's not?
How can we be sure we're making a wise decision?
An invitation to our nieces wedding arrived. Thomas was excited about it.
I was excited too, but the ceremony was being held at a local church.
I wondered if it would still be okay for me to attend.
Even though Thomas wasn't yet willing to accept a Bible study, he gradually softened over the years since I came into the truth.
I knew he understood why I would never enter a church for worship, but what about attending a wedding? Jehovah approves the weddings.
That afternoon, I went to help Amy plan a menu for the Pioneer School lunch coming up.
She noticed I was a bit distracted, so I told her my concerns about the wedding.
Amy sure had a strong opinion on the matter, but I didn't feel she really understood my situation.
Although I appreciated her concern, I felt like she was judging me.
The next day, I decided to visit Charlotte and Ellen and ask their advice.
Like me, Charlotte had come into the truth many years before Ellen, so they really understood my situation.
Is Amy right? Would it be wrong to attend the wedding? What would you do if you were moved?
Charlotte explained that in situations with is no specific Bible command, it becomes a matter of conscience.
And what one person's conscience allows may be different from another.
The important thing is that we make decisions that leave us with a good conscience. But how do I do that?
Dear Emma, it's really a matter of training.
Ellen showed me the scripture in Hebrews 5 verse 14 where the Apostle Paul wrote,
Solid food belongs to mature people. To those who through use have the powers of discernment trained to distinguish both right and wrong.
But Paul didn't just write those words. He lived them. He carefully studied the principles in God's Word.
And as a result, you were able to make decisions that left him with a good conscience.
So even when there's no stated law on a matter, we can always find a Bible principle that can give us insight into God's thinking.
So I made it a matter of prayer and then I got to work.
I researched articles in the Watchtower Publications Index and Research Guide.
I found a really good thought in chapter 2 of the God's love book.
I also read about others who faced similar situations and what Bible principles they found helpful.
Then I meditated on all these.
As I kept studying, I was able to bring my conscience in harmony with Jehovah's spirit, not just with my heart.
I realized that having a Bible-trained conscience doesn't mean everyone will always think exactly alike.
And that's okay. But if we train our conscience by applying Bible principles,
it will guide us along in life so that each of us can remain in God's love.
What did our sister Emma do that we can imitate?
When she realized she needed more information, she got to work.
She studied in order to train her conscience and make a decision that left her conscience clean.
We can do the same when a conscience matter comes up, but we can do more.
We can prepare in advance.
Train our conscience on matters that do not have clear Bible commands.
Study Bible principles that teach our conscience the rules it should work with.
Then when we need it, it's ready.
We can trust it and make decisions in harmony with a Bible-trained conscience.
We urge you, brothers and sisters, keep a tight grip on the word of life.
That's what our program has been about.
We learned why it's essential to stay close to God and receive His gift of everlasting life.
But what's more, we learned practical ways to do it using tried and true methods of personal Bible study.
We may not have opportunity to attend Gilead or another Theocratic school,
but Jehovah's shows all of us how to benefit from His written word.
What an expression of God's love.
To prepare this month's program, our team spent time with the Theocratic schools department
at the World Headquarters facility in Patterson, New York.
This has been the home for Gilead schools since 1995.
And since arriving here, 47 classes have graduated.
Gilead school began with its first class in 1943.
And since then, close to 9,000 students have been trained.
When students come to class each day, their writings and models on display
put their mind on spiritual things as they get ready to study God's word.
Isaiah 119 says, the earth will certainly be filled
with the knowledge of Jehovah as the waters cover the sea.
Our worldwide brotherhood works in harmony with that prophecy.
It's fitting then that here in the classroom lectures cover every part of the Bible
exploring background information to get the sense of the account.
Probably still got bruises and also telling them very honestly
we have to enter through many tribulations.
Imagine you're sitting there looking at this man bruised and cut
and he's saying, we, you and I, we have to go through many tribulations.
Students participate freely, drawing lessons they can use in their life and assignments.
It impresses me to see that the Christian congregation in our time
follows exactly the pattern that was used to make them.
Studying in the Theocratic school's library is a cherished part of their day.
In a quiet, relaxed setting, they associate figuratively
with the faithful and discreet slave, searching and taking in the spiritual food
that nourishes and strengthens their relationship with their Heavenly Father Jehovah.
Students benefit from the hard work of the school instructors.
Under the direction of the teaching committee of the governing body,
they manage the curriculum for Gilead and other schools that are taught here
and in the field.
Through their diligent efforts and Jehovah's blessing,
theocratic schools staff counted a privilege to serve their brothers
and the governing body.
We send you our sincere Christian love and greetings.
Thank you for joining us this month.
This is JW Broadcasting from the World Headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses.